---
title: "How Big of a Solar Panel Do You Need to Power the World"
author: matt_popovich           # Reference author_id in _data/authors.yml
# Can also use `authors: [<author1_id>, <author2_id>]` for multiple entries
date: 2025-09-05 07:15:35 -0600
categories: [Blog, TODO]    # <=2 values here: top category and sub category
tags: [todo]                # TAG names should always be lowercase
layout: post                # post is the default, we will set it to be explicit
pin: false
toc: true                   # Table of contents
comments: true              # Enable/disable comments at the bottom of the post
math: false                 # Disabled by default for performance reasons
mermaid: false              # Diagram generation tool via ```mermaid [...]```
#img_cdn: https://cdn.com
#media_subpath: /img/path/
#image:
#   path: /path/to/image.jpg
#   width: 1200   # in pixels
#   height: 630   # in pixels, 1.90:1 desired by chirpy
#   alt: image alternative text
#   show_image_in_post: false
#description:               # A short sentence to describe the article, used when sharing links on social media and on homepage
---

## TODO: Add Heading Here
TODO: Add text here


Via [ourworldindata.org](https://ourworldindata.org/energy-production-consumption), we currently (2024) consume 186,383TWh of energy per year. This includes energy from coal, oil, natural gas, renewables, everything. The big assumption for this post is assuming everything is powered by *electricity*. So instead of using oil for jet fuel, let's use its equivalent energy content in electricity. Granted, currently, if we did this, we don't have the technology to store that much electricity at a weight that will allow a plane to fly... but let's *assume* we did...
We also need to assume we can store / transmit this energy to whoever wants to use it, wherever they are. If we have one big solar panel, it's only going to get sun for half the day. The other half of the day, we won't be generating any electricity. We will also need to run transmission lines around the world and (not currently possible) assume they have very minimal losses.

But this is just meant to be a number crunching calculation.

186,383TWh of energy per year is 510.64TWh per day. That's what we need our solar panels to generate.

How much electricity does a panel generate? Well, it depends where you live. [globalsolaratlas.info](https://globalsolaratlas.info/map?c=43.55651,-100.437012,6&s=40.722283,-79.266357&m=site) has a fantastic site that will give you an approximate answer. Their `PVOUT` map will tell you how much energy (kWh) a 1kWp (killowat-peak) panel that is 100% efficient will generate per day to the end user. For example, in Denver, CO that number is ~4.7kWh/kWp per day.

How big of a panel do we need for 1kWp? 1kWp requires area 1/Mu (m^2) where Mu = your panel efficiency.
(citation needed, got from chatGPT)

Thus, we can expect ~4.7kWh/kWp = ~4.7kWh/(1/Mu) (m^2) = ~4.7kWh * Mu energy generated by 1 square meter of solar panel.

Unfortunately, our solar panels are currently ~20% efficient. This means, we can expect ~4.7kWh * .2 = 0.94kWh/m^2 of solar panel in Denver.

We now know how much energy we need and how much land we need to create electricity. Let's combine them!

510.64TWh / (0.94kWh/m^2) = 510.64*10^9kWh / (0.94kWh/m^2) = 543,000,000km^2 = 209,000mi^2

Unfortunately, this is much bigger than the size of Denver.

This is more along the size of North Dakota (70,698 mi^2), South Dakota (77,116 mi^2), and Nebraska (77,348 mi^2) combined (225,162 mi^2)

But if we want to put the solar panel there, we will need to adjust our kWh/kWp figure as those states might have more clouds which means less solar radiation, etc. Southwestern Nebraska looks to be about ~4.6kWh/kWp with northeast North Dakota around ~4.0kWh/kWp. Let's take a SWAG and say that area averages to ~4.3kWh/kWp. Running our equation again:

510.64Twh / (4.3kWh/kWp * 20% efficiency) = 593,000km^2 = 229,000mi^2

This number is very close (98.3%) to the area provided by North Dakota + South Dakota + Nebraska.

So there's your answer! If the whole world ran off of electricity, you could power the whole world with a solar panel as big as 3 US states.
The US is ~3.8million mi^2. So this would be 6% of the US's land area... to power the whole world.

Crazy! Lots of solar power out there for the taking. Hopefully we start to [grab more of it](https://ourworldindata.org/grapher/installed-solar-pv-capacity?country=CHN~IND~ESP~BRA~MEX~CHL~USA~OWID_EU27~OWID_ASI).





&nbsp;

TODO: Add spotify link here (if applicable)
<div style="text-align:center">
<iframe
style="border-radius:12px"
src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/track/5fEThMYHHyoohPxqsCvz1l?utm_source=generator"
width="80%" height="352" frameBorder="0"
allowfullscreen=""
allow="autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; fullscreen; picture-in-picture"
loading="lazy">
</iframe>
</div>
